=pod

=head1 NAME

pwcheckd - check users passwords transmitted on a UNIX socket

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 12

=item B<pwcheckd> [B<-hvVF>] B<-s> I<name>:I<type>:F<path> [B<-s> I<name1>:I<type1>:F<path1>]

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<pwcheckd> waits for connections on one or more unix sockets. When
it receives such a connection, it performs an authentication for the peer that initiated
the connection. The way this authentication is done depends on a type associated with each 
socket based on the daemon's command line. Two types of sockets are supported at this point :

=over 12

=item B<self>

When a new connection is received on a B<self> socket, the daemon retrieves the connecter's 
uid from the socket credentials, and reads a password on the connected socket. It then tries to authenticate
the user associated to that uid with that password, using the underlying PAM system.
If the authentication is successful, it writes a 'Y' to the connected socket before 
closing it. Otherwise, a 'N' is written before the socket is closed.

When running the daemon was compiled with TCB support, the authentication manager takes the
identity of the connecting peer as soon as it is retrieved from the socket. Otherwise, the
authentication is run entirely as root.

=item B<X11>

When a new connection is received on a B<X11> socket, the daemon reads an arbitrary (at most
64 bytes long) service name on the socket, then runs an external script, which retrieves pops up
a graphical window to retrieve the password of the currently logged-in X11 user.
The external script is run as root, but may then drop its privileges to those of the current 
X11 user.

=back

Note that B<pwcheckd> limits the number of simultaneous connections on any given socket to
4 (by socket). Reading the password on a connected B<self> type socket times out after 2 seconds.
The external command run for a B<X11> type socket times out after one minute.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<pwcheckd> supports the following options:

=over 12

=item B<-v>

Display version number and exit.

=item B<-h>

Display help and exit.

=item B<-V>

Be more verbose in log output.

=item B<-F>

Run in foreground.

=item B<-s> I<name>:I<type>:F<path>

Use F<path> as a listening socket, named I<name> (free-form internal identifier). One such argument is mandatory
for running the daemon. The argument can be specified several times to set up listening on different sockets.
The only supported type at this point is B<self>.

=back

=head1 FILES

B<pwcheckd> uses the pam stack defined in F</etc/pam.d/pwcheckd> to authenticate users.

=head1 AUTHOR 

Vincent Strubel <L<clipos@ssi.gouv.fr>>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pam(8)|pam>, L<tcb(5)|tcb>
 
=cut
